The second method is to use a more
definitive test which provides additional information
to set the ground truth. For example, to determine whether
a patient has a mass using a chest x-ray, a more definitive test that
can be performed is a CT scan. The CT scan shows the 3D structure
of the potential abnormality, thus giving the radiologist
more information. If a mass is confirmed on the CT, we can then assign that ground
truth to the chest x-ray. In the dermatology study we saw earlier,
the ground truth for the test set was determined
by a skin lesion biopsy. This is a medical procedure in
which a sample of the skin with the suspected cancer is removed and
tested in a lab. The results of this test are then used to
set the ground truth for the photo image. We've now looked at two methods
to set the ground truth or reference standard, consensus voting and
having a more definitive test. With the second method, the difficulty is that we might not
have these additional tests available. Not everyone who gets a chest
x-ray gets a CT scan, and not everyone who has a potentially
suspicious skin lesion gets a biopsy. Thus having a reliable ground truth with
an existing data set often has to use the first method of getting a consensus ground truth on the existing data,
which is the strategy that many medical AI studies use.
Thus we have covered our three
challenges with algorithm testing and
some solutions in the context of medicine. We've seen how we can split by patient in
the creation of training validation and test sets, how we can sample
a minimum percent of a minority class examples in the test set, and
how we can use consensus voting or a more definitive test
to set the ground truth. Congratulations on
completing the first week. This week you've learned about
examples of deep learning models for tasks across several fields of medicine,
and have learned about all the techniques
needed to both train and test your own high-performance model for
chest x-ray interpretation. You'll get to implement these
ideas in the assignment and have your own chest x-ray
interpretation model. In the next week,
you'll learn about ideas and methods to evaluate
the models that you've built. See you then.