Confidence intervals allow us to say that using our sample, we're 95 percent confident that the population accuracy p is
in the interval 0.72, 0.88. 0.72 is called the
lower bound and 0.88, the upper bound of this interval. The calculation of these
confidence intervals is beyond the scope
of this course, but it's important to understand
their interpretation. When we report the accuracy
of a model on the sample, we report it with the mean
and the confidence intervals. The 95 percent confidence
intervals here allow us to say that with 95
percent confidence, p is in the interval 0.72, 0.88. What we haven't seen is what it means to be 95 percent confident. 95 percent confidence
does not say there is a 95 percent probability that
p lies within the interval. It also does not say
that 95 percent of the sample accuracies lie
within this interval. The interpretation of 95 percent confidence
is a little more nuanced and requires us to think about making repeated samples. Let's dive into this. Let's say we were able
to repeatedly sample in 100 patients from the
population several times. Each time we get a
different sample and hence a different
sample accuracy. We can also compute the confidence intervals
associated with each sample. We can look at these
samples on a plot. For each of these samples, we can plot the
sample accuracies, here represented by the circle, and the lower and upper bounds of the confidence intervals
of the samples. On this plot, we also have the true population accuracy
plotted as the dotted line. This is unobserved. Note that most of these samples contain the population
accuracy, this vertical line. Here, six out of the seven
contain it and one misses it. In fact, when we have 95
percent confidence intervals, 95 percent of the samples will contain the
population accuracy. Ninety-five percent is what's called our confidence level. Thus, the interpretation of 95 percent confidence is
that in repeated sampling, this method produces
intervals that include the population accuracy in
about 95 percent of samples.