Out of this expression pop out two very important
quantities that are the bread and butter of
evaluation medicine, that's sensitivity
and specificity. These terms are also known
by true positive rate and true negative rate which refer to the same two quantities. Sensitivity is the probability
that the model classifies a patient as having the disease given that
they have the disease. Specificity is the probability
that the model classifies a patient as being normal
given that they are normal. Thus, we've broken our
global measure of accuracy down into the useful quantities of sensitivity and specificity. The other piece of useful terminology is for the
remaining terms over here. The probability of a
patient having disease in a population is called
the prevalence. The probability of being
normal is simply one minus the probability of having disease or one minus the prevalence. We can thus write
accuracy in terms of sensitivity, specificity,
and prevalence. Why is this useful? This equation allows
us to see accuracy as a weighted average of
sensitivity and specificity. The weight associated with the sensitivity is
the prevalence, and the weight associated with the specificity is one
minus the prevalence. This equation also allows
us to find out any of these quantities given the
other three quantities. Let's see this using an example. First, we compute sensitivity. Sensitivity can be computed
as the fraction of disease examples that
are also positive. So in the denominator, we have the number of disease
examples, which is 1, 2, 3, and in the numerator the number of positive
and disease examples. So this going to be 1, this is not going
to be another 1, this is going to be 2. So we have 2 out of 3 or 0.67. Then we compute specificity. Specificity can be
computed as the fraction of normal examples that
are also negative. So in the denominator, we have the number of normal
examples which is going to be 7 and in the numerator, the number of negative
and normal examples, this is going to be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, not 6, 6, and this is 6 over 7 to get 0.86. So that's the computation of
sensitivity and specificity. Now let's look at the prevalence
of disease in this set. This is simply the fraction of disease examples computed as the number of disease
examples over the total number of examples
which is 3 over 10 or 0.3. Now, using the relationship
between sensitivity, specificity, and prevalence, we can also get to the accuracy. So this is going to be equal to 0.67 times the prevalence 0.3, plus the specificity 0.86, times 1 minus prevalence, so 1 minus 0.3 is 0.7, and this comes out to 0.8. We can confirm with a simple calculation
of the fraction that we get correct that the
accuracy is indeed 0.8. Thus, we have covered
two metrics we can use to evaluate diagnostic AI models including sensitivity
and specificity and we've seen how they're
related now to accuracy.